README.md, before:

# make-bookmarklet

## Table of Contents
* [Install](#install)
* [Use](#use)
* [Options](#options)
* [Unmake / Reversal](#unmake--reversal)


## Install

**Requires Node.js 20 or newer.**

Assuming you already have Node.js, clone this repository and run `npm install`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kevinashworth/make-bookmarklet.git
cd make-bookmarklet
npm i
```

After publishing to npm, users will be able to run it via `npx make-bookmarklet inputfile.js` without installing it globally. For development and contributor notes (testing, linking, linting, versioning, and release steps) see DEVELOPMENT.md.

## Use

To run `make-bookmarklet`, you can use `npx make-bookmarklet inputfile.js` (after the package is published). For local development you can run `node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js` or use `npm link` and run `make-bookmarklet inputfile.js`.

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js
```

This creates a bookmarklet out of the JavaScript in `inputfile.js`. It outputs the new bookmarklet to the command line and also copies the new bookmarklet to the clipboard.

For some ideas on what goes into an input file, see the [examples](examples) folder or see below. I often use an [IIFE](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/IIFE), but you can see [the Shortwave folder](examples/shortwave) for a non-IIFE example. Typically I test out the code by pasting it into my browser console. Once it works to my liking there, I convert it to a bookmarklet.

### A complete, simple example

So, given `inputfile.js` in the top directory of this repo
```javascript
h = window.location.href;
i = h.indexOf('imdb.com');
p = h.indexOf('https://pro.imdb.com');
t = h.indexOf('title');
c = h.indexOf('combined');
f = h.indexOf('fullcredits');
r = h.indexOf('reference');
badword = Math.max(c, f, r);

if (i === -1) {
  window.location = 'https://pro.imdb.com/name/nm2825198/'
}
else if (p === 0) {
  window.location = h.replace('https://pro', 'https://www')
}
else if (p === -1) {
  if ((t > 1) && (badword > 1)) {
    h = h.substring(0, badword)
  }
  window.location = h.replace(/https:\/\/[a-z]+/, 'https://pro');
};
```

then, running `node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js` yields:
```
javascript:var%20h=window.location.href;%20const%20i=h.indexOf('imdb.com');%20const%20p=h.indexOf('https://pro.imdb.com');%20const%20t=h.indexOf('title');%20const%20c=h.indexOf('combined');%20const%20f=h.indexOf('fullcredits');%20const%20r=h.indexOf('reference');%20const%20badword=Math.max(c,%20f,%20r);%20if%20(i===-1)%7Bwindow.location='https://pro.imdb.com/name/nm2825198/';%7Delse%20if%20(p===0)%7Bwindow.location=h.replace('https://pro',%20'https://www');%7Delse%20if%20(p===-1)%7Bif%20((t%3E1)%20&&%20(badword%3E1))%7Bh=h.substring(0,%20badword);%7Dwindow.location=h.replace(/https:%5C/%5C/%5Ba-z%5D+/,%20'https://pro');%20%7D
```

## Options

To keep your bookmarklet a little more readable, use the defaults. But to make more-compact or more-secure bookmarklets, try these options.

### **-a** Agressively remove code

JavaScript engines are very forgiving. So it can be safe to remove some JavaScript aggressively, which will mean relying on JavaScript engines to figure it out correctly, despite not following best coding practices. To remove a little more code before converting your script to a bookmarklet, just use the `--aggressive` (or `-a`) flag:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js --aggressive
```

The removals here go against best coding practices, but here’s an opinion: it will probably not matter to your bookmarklet. So this is your warning — *Not declaring variables will pollute the global scope. The implied use of `window` may cause rare problems. Perhaps your code truly relies on `===` not `==`. Gasp. Take your chances!*

### **-c** Use encodeURIComponent

By default, we encode the reduced script using [`encodeURI`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/encodeURI), but if you wish to use [`encodeURIComponent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/encodeURIComponent) instead, use the `--component` (or `-c`) flag:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet.js -c inputfile.js
```

### **-d** Debug Mode (Verbose Output)

To see more of the make process printed to the console, use the `--debug` (or `-d`) flag:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet.js inputfile.js -d
```


### **-h** Help

To get help for these programs, and to see more examples, run:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet.js --help
```


Please note that any `options` can go before or after `filename`.

## Unmake / Reversal

To convert a bookmarklet back into more-readable code, run the `unmake` version:

```bash
node src/unmake-bookmarklet bookmarklet.js
```

Please note, this is not a true reversal or re-creation of any JavaScript that went in to creating a bookmarklet, but it does convert a hard-to-read bookmarklet into [`prettier`](https://prettier.io) code.

Commit message:

docs: reorganize installation instructions and clarify usage for end users and contributors

README.md, after:

# make-bookmarklet

## Table of Contents
* [Use](#use)
* [Options](#options)
* [Unmake / Reversal](#unmake--reversal)
* [Install](#install)

## Use

To run `make-bookmarklet`, the recommended approach is via `npx` (no install required): `npx make-bookmarklet inputfile.js`. Alternatively you can install globally with `npm install -g make-bookmarklet` and run `make-bookmarklet inputfile.js`, or run locally for development: `node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js`. See the **Install** section at the end of this README for installation details and links to development notes.

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js
```

This creates a bookmarklet out of the JavaScript in `inputfile.js`. It outputs the new bookmarklet to the command line and also copies the new bookmarklet to the clipboard.

For some ideas on what goes into an input file, see the [examples](examples) folder or see below. I often use an [IIFE](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/IIFE), but you can see [the Shortwave folder](examples/shortwave) for a non-IIFE example. Typically I test out the code by pasting it into my browser console. Once it works to my liking there, I convert it to a bookmarklet.

### A complete, simple example

So, given `inputfile.js` in the top directory of this repo
```javascript
h = window.location.href;
i = h.indexOf('imdb.com');
p = h.indexOf('https://pro.imdb.com');
t = h.indexOf('title');
c = h.indexOf('combined');
f = h.indexOf('fullcredits');
r = h.indexOf('reference');
badword = Math.max(c, f, r);

if (i === -1) {
  window.location = 'https://pro.imdb.com/name/nm2825198/'
}
else if (p === 0) {
  window.location = h.replace('https://pro', 'https://www')
}
else if (p === -1) {
  if ((t > 1) && (badword > 1)) {
    h = h.substring(0, badword)
  }
  window.location = h.replace(/https:\/\/[a-z]+/, 'https://pro');
};
```

then, running `node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js` yields:
```
javascript:var%20h=window.location.href;%20const%20i=h.indexOf('imdb.com');%20const%20p=h.indexOf('https://pro.imdb.com');%20const%20t=h.indexOf('title');%20const%20c=h.indexOf('combined');%20const%20f=h.indexOf('fullcredits');%20const%20r=h.indexOf('reference');%20const%20badword=Math.max(c,%20f,%20r);%20if%20(i===-1)%7Bwindow.location='https://pro.imdb.com/name/nm2825198/';%7Delse%20if%20(p===0)%7Bwindow.location=h.replace('https://pro',%20'https://www');%7Delse%20if%20(p===-1)%7Bif%20((t%3E1)%20&&%20(badword%3E1))%7Bh=h.substring(0,%20badword);%7Dwindow.location=h.replace(/https:%5C/%5C/%5Ba-z%5D+/,%20'https://pro');%20%7D
```

## Options

To keep your bookmarklet a little more readable, use the defaults. But to make more-compact or more-secure bookmarklets, try these options.

### **-a** Agressively remove code

JavaScript engines are very forgiving. So it can be safe to remove some JavaScript aggressively, which will mean relying on JavaScript engines to figure it out correctly, despite not following best coding practices. To remove a little more code before converting your script to a bookmarklet, just use the `--aggressive` (or `-a`) flag:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js --aggressive
```

The removals here go against best coding practices, but here’s an opinion: it will probably not matter to your bookmarklet. So this is your warning — *Not declaring variables will pollute the global scope. The implied use of `window` may cause rare problems. Perhaps your code truly relies on `===` not `==`. Gasp. Take your chances!*

### **-c** Use encodeURIComponent

By default, we encode the reduced script using [`encodeURI`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/encodeURI), but if you wish to use [`encodeURIComponent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/encodeURIComponent) instead, use the `--component` (or `-c`) flag:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet.js -c inputfile.js
```

### **-d** Debug Mode (Verbose Output)

To see more of the make process printed to the console, use the `--debug` (or `-d`) flag:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet.js inputfile.js -d
```


### **-h** Help

To get help for these programs, and to see more examples, run:

```bash
node src/make-bookmarklet.js --help
```


Please note that any `options` can go before or after `filename`.

## Unmake / Reversal

To convert a bookmarklet back into more-readable code, run the `unmake` version:

```bash
node src/unmake-bookmarklet bookmarklet.js
```

Please note, this is not a true reversal or re-creation of any JavaScript that went in to creating a bookmarklet, but it does convert a hard-to-read bookmarklet into [`prettier`](https://prettier.io) code.

## Install

**Requires Node.js 20 or newer.**

Quick options for end users:

- Run via `npx` without installing: `npx make-bookmarklet inputfile.js` (recommended).
- Install globally: `npm install -g make-bookmarklet` then run `make-bookmarklet inputfile.js`.
- For local use from source: clone the repo, run `npm i`, and run `node src/make-bookmarklet inputfile.js`.

### For contributors

If you're contributing, see DEVELOPMENT.md for setup, testing, linting, and release notes. Please run `npm test` and `npm run lint` locally and add tests for public-facing changes before opening a PR.
